0478/12/F/M/23
https://bestexamhelp.com/exam/cambridge-igcse/computer-science-0478/2023/0478_m23_qp_12.pdf

1)(a) D ✓
  (b) Virus ✓ - Replicates itself on the system ✓, corrupts data and files, fills up storage space and clogs memory ✓
      Ransomware ✓ - Prevents access to the system ✓ by encrypting all data ✓ until a ransom is paid ✓
      Adware ✓ - Unwillingly shows advertisement ✓ pop-ups
      Worm ✓ - Replicates itself +on a network+ ✓ and uses up the system’s bandwith ✓
  (c) Similarity 1 - Both monitor incoming data ✓ and compare them with a criteria
      Similarity 2 - Both block ✓ incoming data if malicious data is detected
      Difference - Proxy server is used for web-servers ✓ and firewalls are used for personal computers ✓
      (ans) Similarity
            - Stores whitelist/blacklist
            - Keep log of traffic
            - Both can be hardware or software
            Differences
            - Proxy is to divert attack, firewall is to stop unauthorised access

2)(a) High-level
      - Easy to read, write ✓
      - Easy to debug ✓
      - Less lines of code required
      - Memory management is safe and automatic ✓
      - Machine independent +(portable)+ ✓
      Low-level
      - Fast and memory efficient ✓
      - Can directly manipulate memory ✓
      - Takes up less storage space
      - Runs smoothly ✓
      (ans) Huraian!!!
  (b) Compiler - Translates code into machine code all at once before the code can be run ✓. Error report is created with all the errors in the code ✓.
                 (ans) produces executable file
      Interpreter - Translates code line by line when it is running ✓. Programs stops and outputs error if an error has occured ✓.

3)(a) 16 ✓ 0.5 ✓ 4096 ✓ 1024 ✓
  (b) 1. current -program- application software ✓
      2. frequently accessed data
      3. current executing instructions ✓
  (c) Non-volatile storage ✓ that can store large amounts of data permanently.
      (ans) Store data not currently required by CPU
            Store data to transfer to other computers

4)(a) pixel - a tiny squares of colour ✓ that make up an image when arranged in a matrix
      resolution - the width and the height of an image in pixels ✓
  (b) 1000*1000*2 = 2 000 000 bytes ✓
  (c) non-volatile ✓ transistors ✓ grid ✓ electrons ✓
  (d) To reduce storage space ✓
      Faster transmission ✓
      Reduce file size ✓
      Less bandwidth used ✓

5)(a)(i) Originator’s address ✓
         Destination address ✓
         Packet number ✓
     (ii) Payload ✓
          Trailer ✓
  (b)(i) Serial
         - Long transmission wire can be used ✓
         - Less error ✓
         - Less skew, data always arrive in order ✓
         - Less interference, less number of wires are used ✓
         - Cheaper
         Parallel
         - Fast transmission of data ✓
     (ii) Data can be transmitted in both directions ✓ at the same time ✓.
  (c)(i) 0 0 ✓
     (ii) Can detect specific bit that contains error ✓
          -Can detect if more than one bit has an error- +Can detect even numbers of errors+ ✓
     (iii) Bit 6 ✓ Byte 4 ✓
  (d)(i) Store bookmarks/favourites ✓
         Store history ✓
         Provide encryption ✗ +Manage HTTP/HTTPS protocol+
         Request web pages from web server ✓
         (ans) Provide navigation tools
               Allow multiple tabs
               Provides address bar
               Runs javascript
               Allows file downloading
     (ii) Store login details ✓ so that user does not have to reenter
          Save items to shopping cart ✓
          Save user preferences ✓

6)(a) 1F ✓ 10001100 ✓ 90 ✓ 01111000 ✓
  (b) A field of making programmable machines that replicates human actions
      (ans) Design/construction/operation of robots to perform tasks
  (c) +Proximity+ Sensor detects data +continuously+ from surroundings and sends signal to microprocessor. ADC converts signal from analogue to digital. Microprocessor processes the data. Compares values with stored value +of 10cm+. If matches or within range ✓, signal is sent to actuator motor ✓. Actuator carries out actions and rotates the robot 90° ✓. If value out of range ✓, signal is sent to actuator to keep moving forward ✓. Whole process is continuous until stopped ✓.
  (d)(i) Has data ✓ and rules ✓. Has ability to reason ✓ and ability to learn ✓.
     (ii) The robot moves through the maze randomly at first. All the paths are recorded in memory ✓. If it meets a dead end or cannot cross an obstacle, it is penalised ✓ and it learns to avoid that path ✓. If it can continue moving or can cross an obstacle, it is awarded ✓ and learns to follow that path ✓. It learns from its past mistakes and also its past successes and combines the knowledge logically to reach the end of the puzzle.
         (ans) Uses machine learning algorithms
               Identify patterns so it knows what works and what doesn’t
